All right.
So in this lesson, I'm going to introduce you to another view directive, and it is called the model.
And the reason it exists is to solve this exact problem that we saw in the previous lesson.
This is a valid way to establish two way data binding, but this is such a common operation in modern
web development.
The idea of connecting data to our template and keeping the two in sync with two way data binding.
This is so common that the View developers said, Let us give you an easy directive to accomplish the
exact same result.
So what I'm going to do here is I'm going to remove the V bind to my value attribute and I'm going to
remove the V on event reacting to the input.
So we're going to remove those two and we're going to accomplish the exact same thing by adding this
directive right in line.
And we're going to write the directive the same way we did any of our other directives like V on or
before.
We're just going to write it in line.
But it is called V model and you can see the description V code creates a two way binding in a form
input element or a component.
Right?
And what we provided is a string and all we have to give here is the name of the data property that
we want to connect the two way data binding to.
So obviously this is our role input.
So it connects to this role piece of data.
So all I'm going to do is type in role right here.
And it's that simple and so much cleaner.
We just write the V model directive equals and then the data property we want to connect it to and immediately
we have to wait out a binding.
So let me scroll down here and we're going do the same thing.
We're going to remove the V binding to the value attribute.
We're going to remove the reaction to the input event.
And right here we're going to attach the V model.
But of course, we have to be careful here and attach it to the correct data property and that is going
to be location.
So right here, v model location.
So what else does that allow us to clean up?
Well, we no longer need these methods.
We no longer need this verbose approach of knowing about the event object and knowing which property
to access on it and getting target and getting value and then manually overwriting that a V model takes
care of all of that for us.
So you guessed that we can remove those two methods and that's the entire methods object right here.
So there there are seven lines removed there and two additional lines for each input remove below.
So we have removed something like ten lines and only added two more lines for V model and it accomplishes
the exact same thing.
Now, the reason I wanted to show you the long form way first is because you can't always rely on V
model number one.
And number two, I want to make sure you understand what is going on under the hood or behind the scenes,
what Vue does for us automatically before I show you the shortcut way to accomplish it.
So if I go back to my browser right now.
There it is.
And it looks like everything refreshed.
Here's my job search form.
You'll notice we have our data properties still present.
And as I type in here, for example, I will type, let's say, view a developer.
You'll notice my role data property will update here if I type a location like California.
You'll notice my location data property will update.
And if I change it, for example, if I click in here and change California to Seattle and save, you'll
notice the input element will update as well.
So we have the exact same two way data binding or bidirectional data binding, whatever you want to
call it.
We have that with a much simpler syntax of the model.
And in fact, one way I can prove this to you, it's kind of going to be a cool thing is and you do
not have to follow along with this.
By the way, I just want to show you that if I go here, I'm just going to type in Colon and I'm going
to use my curly brace syntax to interpolate or render the value of the overall data property right here
in line.
Right.
And you do not need to follow along.
This is just for the sake of example.
So I'm going to show you that as I go to my browser and type here, for example, I'm going to type
a role of, let's say, developer.
You'll notice as I type, we're going to see the exact same text appear at the very top above.
So again, why is this happening?
Well, it's happening because we have two way data binding.
So as we type every character, we are in turn updating the data.
Property of role and view knows that whenever the role data property updates, it needs to re render
the template.
So it's looking at the template.
And in the template we are referencing that role data property with our curly braces and the template
so it knows it needs to display it and its current value, which happens to be the exact same value
that we typed into our input.
So as we type a character instantaneously, this updates right here, which in turn updates this right
here.
And that is a proof that we have two way data binding as we're making a change in our template, we
are changing our data and as our data is changing, we are making a corresponding change in our template.
So that is a visual way of proving that we have to wait out a binding and a visual way of demonstrating
what DV model directive gives us.
Let me go back to my code and remove this, since this was just for the sake of example.
There we go.
And that's all there is to cover.
In this lesson, we introduced the model directive.
We write it in line just like any other directive.
There is no shortcut for this one.
Unlike Von or V bind, you always have the right leadership dash model followed by an equal sign and
then the name of the data property to connect or bind that inputs value to.
So as the data changes, the input will update.
As the input updates, the data will change.
All right.
That's all there is to cover here.
So I will see you in the next lesson.